# Development

### Running the widget

- Inside the project folder run:

`npm run start`

- If the build was successful the widget will be running under `https://localhost:8080` after a few seconds. The server that hosts the widgets code runs under port 8080 and under the HTTPS protocol, which means you might get an HTTPS certificate error

### HTTPS certificate

`npm run start` starts a built-in webserver (called WebpackDevserver) that hosts the widgets code for development mode. This servers runs under the HTTPS protocol because that is required by the Kambi Sportsbook, as such it has a self-signed certificate which needs to be manually trusted in order to be able to open the widget

-- TODO

### Project file structure

```
project
   README.md
   .eslintrc
   .gitignore
   .editorconfig
   LICENSE
   package.json
   dist
   node_modules
   src
      app.scss
      index.html
      index.js
      mockSetupData.json
      i18n
         en_GB.json
```

README.md: readme for the project

.eslintrc, .gitignore, .editorconfig: configuration files for the project. These files are overwritten everytime the widget is built to make sure that all the widgets have the same files

LICENSE: license file of the project

package.json: NPM configuration file. This file lists metadata about the project as well as all external dependencies it uses

dist: When building the project for production with `npm run build` the files to be deployed are placed inside this folder

node_modules: all NPM dependencies used in the project are stored in this folder, if the project seems to be missing or using outdated dependencies delete this folder and call `npm install`

src: this folder holds the source code for the widget

src/app.scss: SCSS file with styling rules for this widget, this file is converted to regular CSS during the build process. SCSS is a superset of CSS and as such all CSS is also valid SCSS, so normal CSS can be placed in this file. More information on SCSS [here](http://sass-lang.com/)

src/index.html: The markup of the widget, ideally the widget should only change the `<body>` section of the page. Additional files/libraries should not be included in as `<script>` tags in the page, instead they should be included by `import`ing them inside index.js, although it is still possible to do so. See the following sections on how to add dependencies to the project

src/index.js: This is the main javascript file of the project, see the following sections on how to use it

src/mockSetupData.json: This file is used ONLY when not opening the widget inside the Kambi Sportsbook, it mocks values that would normally be passed by the Sportsbook. By changing values in this file you can test how the widget will look like in another language for example.
For more information check the API documentation for `coreLibrary.config`, `coreLibrary.args` and `coreLibrary.pageInfo`

i18n: This folder holds all the internationalization JSON files of the widget, these are used by the `translationModule`, the use of these files are optional if no internationalization is required. If the user locale is not found in this folder it will fallback to `en_GB.json`. These are all the currently supported locales in the Sportsbook, although they can vary by operator:
cs_CZ.json, de_DE.json, es_ES.json, fr_CH.json, lt_LT.json, no_NO.json, ro_RO.json, da_DK.json, el_GR.json, et_EE.json, fr_FR.json, lv_LV.json, pl_PL.json, ru_RU.json, de_AT.json, en_AU.json, fi_FI.json, hu_HU.json, nl_BE.json, pt_BR.json, sv_SE.json, de_CH.json, en_GB.json, fr_BE.json, it_IT.json, nl_NL.json, pt_PT.json, tr_TR.json

### Core Library and Build Tools

By default the a widget project uses these two dependencies:

 - `widget-core-library`

 Has API methods for interacting with the Sportsbook and fetching data as well as methods for internationalization.

 - `widget-build-tools`

 Defines the build process of the widget.

These dependencies are external to the project and as such have their own specific versions, you can check the versions inside the `package.json` file.

### Importing and Exporting Files

The widget uses (webpack)[https://webpack.github.io/] to transpile, minify, concatenate, bundle all the files and their dependencies together. This is all done automatically by the scripts `npm run start` (which also starts a webserver for development) and `npm run build`. All the webpack configuration is already done by those scripts and as such no configuration is required by the user. However the way that the files are bundled together requires them to be referenced in order for them to be included in the final bundle

The `entry` point of the application is `index.js`, this file needs to reference (import) directly or indirectly all other files used, this means even HTML and CSS files. The template project that is generated by `kambi-widgets-cli init` shows this:

```javascript
import {
   coreLibrary,
   widgetModule,
   offeringModule
} from 'widget-core-library';
import './index.html';
import './app.scss';

...
```

As can be seen here, that file imports `coreLibrary`, `widgetModule` and `offeringModule` from `widget-core-library` as well as importing the `./index.html` and `./app.scss`. If those files were not imported they would not be included in the final bundled version (`index.html` would be missing in the `dist` folder for example).

Imports that start with `./` mean that they are importing other files in the same project, while those without `./` are importing files that are dependencies of the project (see next section for more information). So it is possible to split the widgets code in multiple javascript files.

More information about exports and imports can be seen [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) and [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export)

### Basic Code Setup

All widgets need to start by calling `coreLibrary.init()` and passing it the default arguments that the widget receives. These arguments can be overwritten by the Sportsbook (or inside `src/mockSetupData.json` arguments attribute when running the widget outside the sportsbook). `coreLibrary.init()` returns a `Promise` object which is a way to deal with asynchronous requests (all calls to fetch data in `widget-core-library` return `Promise`s).

You can learn more about `Promise`s [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise). More about `Promise`s can also be seen in the `Fetching Data` section.

```javascript
coreLibrary.init({
   // default arguments
   title: 'Hello World'
}).then(function () {
   // retrieved arguments
   var args = coreLibrary.args;

   // receiving the title through this widget arguments
   document.getElementById('title').innerText = args.title;
});
```

The above code simply sets the header text of the widget to be `"Hello World"` unless it was defined by the sportsbook to be something else.

### Adding an external Dependency

With the basic setup you only have access to the `widget-core-library` in the project, which can make it hard to do complex widgets using plain Javascript. If we wanted to add a library to make our jobs easier we could do so by adding a `<script>` tag in the `<head>` section of the page, but that is not the recommended way of doing this because it can be hard to keep track of all the dependencies the project will need. As an alternative you can also add dependencies using `npm`. For example to add jquery to the project all we need to do is run in the command line:

`npm install --save jquery`

and start using it by `import`ing it in the javascript:



In this manner it is not necessary change `index.html` at all


### Advanced

The project is set up to have several features to make it easier to manage a complex project:


 - eslint validation

 The project has linting provided by [eslint](http://eslint.org/). Linters enforce code-style guidelines. They can be configured to appear in your text editor, but they are also verified at build time. For now the eslint rules are not customizable on a project-by-project basis.

 - Common Build Architecture

 Since all webpack build configuration of the widgets is shared and localized in the `widget-build-tools` dependency it is not possible to add more items to the build architecture at least for now. For example replacing SCSS with LESS. We might add some scape hatches in the future to support customizing the webpack configuration to allow modifying the build process.

 - JSX and React support

 TODO
